the sun did not shine. it was too wet to play. so we sat in the house all that cold, cold, wet day. i sat there with sally. we sat there, we two. and i said, 'how i wish we had something to do!' too wet to go out and too cold to play ball. so we sat in the house. we did nothing at all. so all we could do was to sit! sit! sit! sit! and we did not like it. not one little bit. and then something went BUMP! how that bump made us jump! we looked! then we saw him step in on the mat! we looked! and we saw him! the cat in the hat! and he said to us, 'why do you sit there like that?' 'i know it is wet and the sun is not sunny. but we can have lots of good fun that is funny!' 'i know some good games we could play,' said the cat. 'i know some new tricks,' said the cat in hte hat. 'a lot of good tricks. i will show them to you. your mother will not mind at all if i do.' then sally and i did not know what to say. our mother was out of the house for the day. but our fish said, 'no! no! make that cat go away! tell that cat in the hat you do NOT want to play. he should not be here. he should not be about. he should not be here when your mother is out!' 'now! now! have no fear. have no fear!' said the cat. 'my tricks are not bad,' said the cat in the hat. 'why, we can have lots of good fun, if you wish, with a game that i call up-up-up with a fish!' 'put me down!' said the fish. 'this is no fun at all! put me down!' said the fish. 'i do NOT wish to fall!' 'have no fear!' said the cat. 'i will not let you fall. i will hold you up high as i stand on a ball. with a book one one hand! and a cup on my hat! but that is not ALL i can do! said the cat... 'look at me! look at me now!' said the cat. 'with a cup and a cake on the top of my hat! i can hold up TWO books! i can hold up the fish! and a little toy ship! and some milk on a dish! and look! i can hop up and down on the ball! but that is not all! oh, no. that is not all... 'look at me! look at me! look at me NOW! it is fun to have fun but you have to know how. i can hold up the cup and the milk and the cake! i can hold up these books! and the fish on a rake! i can hold the toy ship and a little toy man! and look! with my tail i can hold a red fan! i can fan with the fan as i hop on the ball! but that is not all. oh, no. that is not all...' that is what the cat said... then he fell on his head! he came down with a bump from up there on the ball. and sally and i, we saw ALL the things fall! and our fish came down, too. he fell into a pot! he said, 'do i like this? oh, no! i do not. this is not a good game,' said our fish as he lit. 'no, i do not like it, not one little bit!' 'now look what you did!' said the fish to the cat. 'now look at this house! look at this! look at that! you sank our toy ship, sank it deep in the cake. you shook up our house and you bent our new rake. you SHOULD NOT be here when our mother is not. you get out of this house!' said the fish in the pot. 'but i like to be here. oh, i like it a lot!' said the cat in the hat to the fish in the pot. 'i will NOT go away. i do NOT wish to go! and so,' said the cat in the hat, 'so so so... i will show you another good game that i know!' and then he ran out. and, then, fast as a fox, the cat in the hat came back in with a box. a big red wood box. it was shut with a hook. 'now look at this trick,' said the cat. 'take a look!' then he got up on top with a tip of his hat. 'i call this game fun-in-a-box,' said the cat. 'in this box are two things i will show to you now. you will like these two things,' said the cat with a bow. 'i will pick up the hook. you will see something new. two things. and i call them Thing One and Thing Two. these Things will not bite you. they want to have fun.' then, out of the box came Thing Two and Thing One! and they ran to us fast. they said, 'how do you do? would you like to shake hands with Thing One and Thing Two?' and sally and i did not know what to do. so we had to shake hands with Thing One and Thing Two. we shook their two hands. but our fish said, 'no! no! those Things should not be in this house! make them go! they should not be here when your mother is not! put them out! put them out!' said the fish in the pot. 'have no fear, little fish,' said the cat in the hat. 'these Things are good Things.' and he gave them a pat. 'they are tame. oh, so tame! they have come here to play. they will give you some fun on this wet, wet, wet day.' now, here is a game that they like,' said the cat. 'they like to fly kites,' said the cat in the hat. 'no! not in the house!' said the fish in the pot. 'they should not fly kites in a house! they should not. oh, the things they will bump! oh, the things they will hit! oh, i do not like it! not one little bit!' then sally and i saw them run down the hall. we saw those two Things bump their kites on the wall! bump! thump! thump! bump! down the wall in the hall. thing two and thing one! they ran up! they ran down! on the string of one kite we saw mother's new gown! her gown with the dots that are pink, white and red. then we saw one kite bump on the head of her bed! then those things ran about with big bumps, jumps and kicks and with hops and big thumps and all kinds of bad tricks. and i said, 'i do NOT like the way that they play! if mother could see this, oh, what would she say!' then our fish said, 'look! look!' and our fish shook with fear. 'your mother is on her way home! do you hear? oh, what will she do to us? what will she say? oh, she will not like it to find us this way!' 'so DO something! fast!' said the fish. 'do you hear! i saw her. your mother! your mother is near! so, as fast as you can, think of something to do! you will have to get rid of thing one and thing two!' so, as fast as i could, i went after my net. and i said, 'with my net i can get them i bet. i bet, with my net, i can get those things yet!' then i let down my net. it came down with a PLOP! and i had them! at last! those two things had to stop. then i said to the cat, 'now you do as i say. you pack up those Things and you take them away!' 'oh dear!' said the cat. 'you did not like our game... oh dear. what a shame! what a shame! what a shame!' then he shut up the things in the box with the hook. and the cat went away with a sad kind of look. 'that is good,' said the fish. 'he has gone away. yes. but your mother will come. she will find this big mess! and this mess is so big and so deep and so tall, we can not pick it up. there is no way at all!' and THEN! who was back in the house? why, the cat! 'have no fear of this mess,' said the cat in the hat. 'i always pick up all my playthings and so... i will show you another good trick that i know!' then we saw him pick up all the things that were down. he picked up the cake, and the rake, and the gown, and the milk, and the strings, and the books, and the dish, and the fan, and the cup, and the ship, and the fish. and he put them away. then he said, 'that is that.' and then he was gone with a tip of his hat. then our mother came in and she said to us two, 'did you have any fun? tell me. what did you do?' and sally and i did not know what to say. should we tell her the things that went on there that day? should we tell her about it? now, what SHOULD we do? well... what would YOU do if your mother asked YOU?
I am Daniel I am Sam Sam I am That Sam-I-am That Sam-I-am! I do not like that Sam-I-am Do you like green eggs and ham I do not like them, Sam-I-am. I do not like green eggs and ham. Would you like them Here or there? I would not like them here or there. I would not like them anywhere. I do not like green eggs and ham. I do not like them, Sam-I-am Would you like them in a house? Would you like them with a mouse? I do not like them in a house. I do not like them with a mouse. I do not like them here or there. I do not like them anywhere. I do not like green eggs and ham. I do not like them, Sam-I-am. Would you eat them in a box? Would you eat them with a fox? Not in a box. Not with a fox. Not in a house. Not with a mouse. I would not eat them here or there. I would not eat them anywhere. I would not eat green eggs and ham. I do not like them, Sam-I-am. Would you? Could you? in a car? Eat them! Eat them! Here they are. I woould not, could not, in a car You may like them. You will see. You may like them in a tree? I would not, could not in a tree. Not in a car! You let me be. I do not like them in a box. I do not like them with a fox I do not like them in a house I do mot like them with a mouse I do not like them here or there. I do not like them anywhere. I do not like green eggs and ham. I do not like them, Sam-I-am. A train! A train! A train! A train! Could you, would you on a train? Not on a train! Not in a tree! Not in a car! Sam! Let me be! I would not, could not, in a box. I could not, would not, with a fox. I will not eat them with a mouse I will not eat them in a house. I will not eat them here or there. I will not eat them anywhere. I do not like them, Sam-I-am. Say! In the dark? Here in the dark! Would you, could you, in the dark? I would not, could not, in the dark. Would you, could you, in the rain? I would not, could not, in the rain. Not in the dark. Not on a train, Not in a car, Not in a tree. I do not like them, Sam, you see. Not in a house. Not in a box. Not with a mouse. Not with a fox. I will not eat them here or there. I do not like them anywhere! You do not like green eggs and ham? I do not like them, Sam-I-am. Could you, would you, with a goat? I would not, could not. with a goat! Would you, could you, on a boat? I could not, would not, on a boat. I will not, will not, with a goat. I will not eat them in the rain. I will not eat them on a train. Not in the dark! Not in a tree! Not in a car! You let me be! I do not like them in a box. I do not like them with a fox. I will not eat them in a house. I do not like them with a mouse. I do not like them here or there. I do not like them ANYWHERE! I do not like green egss and ham! I do not like them, Sam-I-am. You do not like them. SO you say. Try them! Try them! ANd you may. Try them and you may I say. Sam! If you will let me be, I will try them. You will see. Say! I like green eggs and ham! I do! I like them, Sam-I-am! And I would eat them in a boat! And I would eat them with a goat... And I will eat them in the rain. And in the dark. And on a train. And in a car. And in a tree. They are so goodm so goodm you see! So I will eat them in a box. And I will eat them with a fox. And I will eat them in a house. And I will eat them with a mouse. And I will eat them here and there. Say! I will eat them ANHYWHERE! I do so like green eggs and ham! Thank you! Thank you, Sam-I-am
Congratulations! Today is your day. You're off to Great Places! You're off and away! You have brains in your head. You have feet in your shoes. You can steer yourself any direction you choose. You're on your own. And you know what you know. And YOU are the guy who'll decide where to go. You'll look up and down streets. Look 'em over with care. About some you will say, "I don't choose to go there." With your head full of brains and your shoes full of feet, you're too smart to go down any not-so-good street. And you may not find any you'll want to go down. In that case, of course, you'll head straight out of town. It's opener there in the wide open air. Out there things can happen and frequently do to people as brainy and footsy as you. And then things start to happen, don't worry. Don't stew. Just go right along. You'll start happening too. OH! THE PLACES YOU'LL GO! You'll be on y our way up! You'll be seeing great sights! You'll join the high fliers who soar to high heights. You won't lag behind, because you'll have the speed. You'll pass the whole gang and you'll soon take the lead. Wherever you fly, you'll be best of the best. Wherever you go, you will top all the rest. Except when you don't. Because, sometimes, you won't. I'm sorry to say so but, sadly, it's true that Bang-ups and Hang-ups can happen to you. You can get all hung up in a prickle-ly perch. And your gang will fly on. You'll be left in a Lurch. You'll come down from the Lurch with an unpleasant bump. And the chances are, then, that you'll be in a Slump. And when you're in a Slump, you're not in for much fun. Un-slumping yourself is not easily done. You will come to a place where the streets are not marked. Some windows are lighted. But mostly they're darked. A place you could sprain both your elbow and chin! Do you dare to stay out? Do you dare to go in? How much can you lose? How much can you win? And IF you go in, should you turn left or right... or right-and-three-quarters? Or, maybe, not quite? Or go around back and sneak in from behind? Simple it's not, I'm afraid you will find, for a mind-maker-upper to make up his mind. You can get so confused that you'll start in to race down long wiggled roads at a break-necking pace and grind on for miles cross weirdish wild space, headed, I fear, toward a most useless place. The Waiting Place... ...for people just waiting. Waiting for a train to go or a bus to come, or a plane to go or the mail to come, or the rain to go or the phone to ring, or the snow to snow or the waiting around for a Yes or No or waiting for their hair to grow. Everyone is just waiting. Waiting for the fish to bite or waiting for the wind to fly a kite or waiting around for Friday night or waiting, perhaps, for their Uncle Jake or a pot to boil, or a Better Break or a string of pearls, or a pair of pants or a wig with curls, or Another Chance. Everyone is just waiting. NO! That's not for you! Somehow you'll escape all that waiting and staying You'll find the bright places where Boom Bands are playing. With banner flip-flapping, once more you'll ride high! Ready for anything under the sky. Ready because you're that kind of a guy! Oh, the places you'll go! There is fun to be done! There are points to be scored. There are games to be won. And the magical things you can do with that ball will make you the winning-est winner of all. Fame! You'll be as famous as famous can be, with the whole wide world watching you win on TV. Except when they don't Because, sometimes they won't. I'm afraid that some times you'll play lonely games too. Games you can't win 'cause you'll play against you. All Alone! Whether you like it or not, Alone will be something you'll be quite a lot. And when you're alone, there's a very good chance you'll meet things that scare you right out of your pants. There are some, down the road between hither and yon, that can scare you so much you won't want to go on. But on you will go though the weather be foul. On you will go though your enemies prowl. On you will go though the Hakken-Kraks howl. Onward up many a frightening creek, though your arms may get sore and your sneakers may leak. On and on you will hike, And I know you'll hike far and face up to your problems whatever they are. You'll get mixed up, of course, as you already know. You'll get mixed up with many strange birds as you go. So be sure when you step. Step with care and great tact and remember that Life's a Great Balancing Act. Just never foget to be dexterous and deft. And never mix up your right foot with your left. And will you succeed? Yes! You will, indeed! (98 and 3/4 percent guaranteed.) KID, YOU'LL MOVE MOUNTAINS! So... be your name Buxbaum or Bixby or Bray or Mordecai Ali Van Allen O'Shea, You're off the Great Places! Today is your day! Your mountain is waiting. So...get on your way!
On the far-away island of Sala-ma-Sond, Yertle the Turtle was king of the pond. A nice little pond. It was clean. It was neat. The water was warm. There was plenty to eat. The turtles had everything turtles might need. And they were all happy. Quite happy indeed. They were... untill Yertle, the king of them all, Decided the kingdom he ruled was too small. "I'm ruler", said Yertle, "of all that I see. But I don't see enough. That's the trouble with me. With this stone for a throne, I look down on my pond But I cannot look down on the places beyond. This throne that I sit on is too, too low down. It ought to be higher!" he said with a frown. "If I could sit high, how much greater I'd be! What a king! I'd be ruler of all that I see!" So Yertle, the Turtle King, lifted his hand And Yertle, the Turtle King, gave a command. He ordered nine turtles to swim to his stone And, using these turtles, he built a new throne. He made each turtle stand on another one's back And he piled them all up in a nine-turtle stack. And then Yertle climbed up. He sat down on the pile. What a wonderful view! He could see 'most a mile! "All mine!" Yertle cried. "Oh, the things I now rule! I'm the king of a cow! And I'm the king of a mule! I'm the king of a house! And, what's more, beyond that I'm the king of a blueberry bush and a cat! I'm Yertle the Turtle! Oh, marvelous me! For I am the ruler of all that I see!" And all through the morning, he sat up there high Saying over and over, "A grat king am I!" Until 'long about noon. Then he heard a faint sigh. "What's that?" snapped the king And he looked down the stack. And he saw, at the bottom, a turtle named Mack. Just a part of his throne. And this plain little turtle Looked up and he said, "Beg your pardon, King Yertle. I've pains in my back and my shoulders and knees. How long must we stand here, Your Majesty, please?" "SILENCE!" the King of the Turtles barked back. "I'm king, and you're only a turtle named Mack." "You stay in your place while I sit here and rule. I'm the king of a cow! And I'm the king of a mule! I'm the king of a house! And a bush! And a cat! But that isn't all. I'll do better than that! My throne shall be higher!" his royal voice thundered, "So pile up more turtles! I want 'bout two hundred!" "Turtles! More turtles!" he bellowed and brayed. And the turtles 'way down in the pond were afraid. They trembled. They shook. But they came. They obeyed. >From all over the pond, they came swimming by dozens. Whole families of turtles, with uncles and cousins. And all of them stepped on the head of poor Mack. One after another, they climbed up the stack. Then Yertle the Turtle was perched up so high, He could see fourty miles from his throne in the sky! "Hooray!" shouted Yertle. "I'm the king of the trees! I'm king of the birds! And I'm king of the bees! I'm king of the butterflies! King of the air! Ah, me! What a throne! What a wonderful chair! I'm Yertle the Turtle! Oh, marvelous me! For I am the ruler of all that I see!" Then again, from below, in the great heavy stack, Came a groan from that plain little turtle named Mack. "Your Majesty, please... I don't like to complain, But down here below, we are feeling great pain. I know, up on top you are seeing great sights, But down here at the bottom we, too, should have rights. We turtles can't stand it. Our shells will all crack! Besides, we need food. We are starving!" groaned Mack. "You hush up your mouth!" howled the mighty King Yertle. "You've no right to talk to the world's highest turtle. I rule from the clouds! Over land! Over sea! There's nothing, no, NOTHING, that's higher than me!" But, while he was shouting, he saw with suprise That the moon of the evening was starting to rise Up over his head in the darkening skies. "What's THAT?" snorted Yertle. "Say, what IS that thing That dares to be higher than Yertle the King? I shall not allow it! I'll go higher still! I'll build my throne higher! I can and I will! I'll call some more turtles. I'll stack 'em to heaven! I need 'bout five thousand, six hundred and seven!" But, as Yertle, the Turtle King, lifted his hand And started to order and give the command, That plain little turtle below in the stack, That plain little turtle whose name was just Mack, Decided he'd taken enough. And he had. And that plain little lad got a bit mad. And that plain little Mack did a plain little thing. He burped! And his burp shook the throne of the king! And Yertle the Turtle, the king of the trees, The king of the air and the birds and the bees, The king of a house and a cow and a mule... Well, that was the end of the Turtle King's rule! For Yertle, the King of all Sala-ma-Sond, Fell off his high throne and fell Plunk! in the pond! And tosay the great Yertle, that Marvelous he, Is King of the Mud. That is all he can see. And the turtles, of course... all the turtles are free As turtles and, maybe, all creatures should be.
Now, the Star-Belly Sneetches- Had bellies with stars. The Plain-Belly Sneetches-Had none upon thars. Those stars weren’t so big. They were really so small. You might think such a thing wouldn’t matter at all. But, because they had stars, all the Star-Belly Sneetches Would brag, “We’re the best kind of Sneetch on the beaches. With their snoots in the air, they would sniff and they’d snort “We’ll have nothing to do with the Plain-Belly sort!” And whenever they met some, when they were out walking, They’d hike right on past them without even talking. When the Star-Belly children went out to play ball, Could a Plain- Belly get in the game…? Not at all. You only could play if your bellies had stars And the Plain-Belly children had none upon thars. When the Star-Belly Sneetches had frankfurter roasts Or picnics or parties or marshmallow toasts, They never invited the Plain-Belly Sneetches. They left them out cold, in the dark of the beaches. They kept them away. Never let them come near. And that’s how they treated them year after year. Then ONE day, seems…while the Plain-Belly Sneetches Were moping and doping alone on the beaches, Just sitting there wishing their bellies had stars… A stranger zipped up in the strangest of cars! “My friends,” he announced in a voice clear and keen, “My name is Sylvester McMonkey McBean. And I’ve heard of your troubles. I’ve heard you’re unhappy. But I can fix that. I’m the Fix-it-Up Chappie. I’ve come here to help you. I have what you need. And my prices are low. And I work at great speed. And my work is one hundred per cent guaranteed! Then, quickly Sylvester McMonkey McBean Put together a very peculiar machine. And he said, “You want stars like a Star-Belly Sneetch…? My friends, you can have them for three dollars each!” “Just pay me your money and hop right aboard!” So they clambered inside. Then the big machine roared And it klonked. And it bonked. And it jerked. And it berked And it bopped them about. But the thing really worked! When the Plain-Belly Sneetches popped out, they had stars! They actually did. They had stars upon thars! Then they yelled at the ones who had stars at the start, “We’re exactly like you! You can’t tell us apart. We’re all just the same, now, you snooty old smarties! And now we can go to your frankfurter parties.” “Good grief!” groaned the ones who had stars at the first. “We’re still the best Sneetches and they are the worst. But, now, how in the world will we know,” they all frowned, “If which kind is what, or the other way round?” Then came McBean with a very sly wink. And he said, “Things are not quite as bad as you think. So you don’t know who’s who. That is perfectly true. But come with me, friends. Do you know what I’ll do? I’ll make you, again, the best Sneetches on beaches And all it will cost you is ten dollars eaches.” “Belly stars are no longer in style,” said McBean. “What you need is a trip through my Star-off Machine. This wondrous contraption will take off your stars So you won’t look like Sneetches who have them on thars.” And that handy machine Working very precisely Removed all the stars from their tummies quite nicely. Then, with snoots in the air, they paraded about And they opened their beaks and they let out a shout, “We know who is who! Now there isn’t a doubt. The best kind of Sneetches are Sneetches without!” Then, of course, those with stars all got frightfully mad. To be wearing a star now was frightfully bad. Then, of course, old Sylvester McMonkey McBean Invited them into his star-off machine. Then, of course from THEN on, as you probably guess, Things really got into a horrible mess. All the rest of that day, on those wild screaming beaches, The fix-it-up Chappie kept fixing up Sneetches. Off again! On Again! In again! Out again! Through the machines they raced round and about again, Changing their stars every minute or two. They kept paying money. They kept running through Until neither the Plain nor the Star-Bellies knew Whether this one was that one…or that one was this one Or which one was what one …or what one was who. Then, when every last cent Of their money was spent, The Fix-it-Up Chappie packed up And he went. And he laughed as he drove In his car up the beach, “They never will learn. No. You can’t teach a Sneetch!” But McBean was quite wrong. I’m quite happy to say That the Sneetches got really quite smart on that day, The day they decided that Sneetches are Sneetches And no kind of Sneetch is the best on the beaches That day, all the Sneetches forgot about stars And whether they had one, or not, upon thars.